Submission By: Zarrar Malik, 30, Aug 2022 

Introduction:
Cloud computing is basically providing IT services over the internet 
There isn't a one-time payment plan; you are charged for as much as you use.
You yourself do not need to buy and maintain servers or data centers instead you outsource it.
Data centers and servers are used for tasks such as computing power, storage, etc.
There are three main cloud providers AWS, Azure, and GCP which have their own cloud infrastructure. 
Each cloud provider has there own unique certification. 

Traditional Architecture:
Consists of both hardware and software resources
Includes data center, server, networking computers, and software applications
This setup is very costly and unreliable

Cloud Computing:
The basic definition is technology to operate the cloud.
Virtualized IT infrastructure (A single server can be divided into multiple servers)
Cloud Lowers IT costs ( no inhouse infrastructure required)
Cloud computing increases the efficiency of the enterprise ( can also empower certain users for support or development mainly)
Cloud is not costly, you can purchase capacity/scale as per your requirement hence it is cost-effective

Characteristics:
On-Demand Self-Service: No administrator is required, users are empowered
Broad Network Access: Easy to access from anywhere over networks and devices.
Resource Pooling: Resources like storage can be shared with customers, and more than one client can use the same physical cloud resource.
Rapid Elasticity: Use as much as you need, can increase or decrease scale depending on your need.
Measured Service: monitored therefore there's accountability.

Why Cloud:
Can scale up/down quickly
Instant bandwidth increase
Reduced cost; no maintenance, no management required
Secure
Reduced failures, due to the provider's integrity
Quick and easy data recovery
Easy access from anywhere over the internet
IaaS: rent hardware, complete control over hardware, most flexible (What is VM and EC2?)
PaaS: read to use, write and execute high-quality code, helps create applications quickly. (Azure SQL DB)
SaaS: complete product, fully managed by the provider, hosted online (Gmail,MS office 365)

Cloud Deployment Models:
Public Cloud: Third Party, Available to anyone on the internet, Scaling is quicker and easy (AWS, Azure and GCP)
Hybrid Cloud: Combo of both public and private cloud, More in demand (Microsoft Azure Stack)
Private Cloud: Dedicated to a single organization, physical components stored on site (virtualized resources) (HP Data Centers)

